All right, so we talked about reusable
styles, we talked about reusable values.
And just like JavaScript,
now we'll go up one level of abstraction,
let's talk about reusable components.
Again, this is where my job gets really
easy because when I say the word
component, it's not like but
it's deep now,
it's like kind of the same thing, right?
It's like a reusable piece
of UI that you can use and
change and update things.
There are some nuances that
we'll kind of get into, but
let's start with the very
basics in this case.
Which is let's say we wanted to create
a little kinda like fake button,
just like we did before, auto layout
will say Button or Button, in this case,
Button, all right?
And we'll say make that
an auto layer frame, awesome.
And let's go ahead and let's actually say.
I don't wanna use the cozy padding,
so we'll say.
Rounded and I'm gonna then say that
that is, I think I like 16 for buttons.
Good part about variables,
I can change it if I don't like it,
and we'll scope that over only
a quarter radius, corner radius.
Cool, and so let's go ahead, and
we'll say that that is gonna
be our rounded value and
then the fill is gonna be primary 400.
Now that's too roundy.
So go ahead, change that to an 8.
Nice, that looks like a button.
Again, I can maybe make another
variable that is button label,
just like you saw in those
other examples before.
For the sake of staying on topic,
I'll skip that for a moment.
So I have this button,
most of the UIs I've worked on
tend to have more than one button.
There are a lot of buttons,
almost as many as they have input fields,
there's a lot more input fields.
But I might wanna have more buttons, I
might wanna use them throughout my design.
Even though making that
button was somewhat simple.
And even though I'm referencing at
least for the border radius and for
the fill color, changeable things, I don't
wanna make this button that many times,
all right?
In fact, cuz there are other things about
this, like could I make more variables for
the padding?
Should I?
Absolutely,
I should because I'm gonna use the same
kind of values multiple places.
But the idea of a button I might
seek to have in more than one place.
So as you sort of build out a design
system and some companies have a design
system team to build out a design
system a long enough period of time.
You always, there's a design
system you intended to build and
the design system you ended up with
just because your application grew and
has more than one button.
Are there are various different
things that you use, so
with this we can go ahead, and
I can either click this up here, or
I can right-click on it and
say create component.
Or I'm sure there's a keystroke that I can
press was obviously, Options+Cmd+K, and
it'll go ahead, and it'll create a button,
and then it gets this purple thing, right?
And that seems real cool.
I like that, and if I go into assets,
under local components,
I have the concept of a button.
And with this button,
I can make many buttons.
This is also a button,
you're all JavaScript engineers, right?
Are you familiar with the idea
of prototype inheritance, right?
Nobody deals with it anymore.
But this button is basically
the kind of prototype for
all of these other buttons, right?
So I did not store the padding
in a variable like an adult.
I just made a button real quick, and
then dragged a bunch onto the page,
did not store the label color.
But what I can do is I can
change my prototype and
then for all the properties
that are not being overridden,
they will go ahead and
inherit that as well.
So now, I have the world's ugliest button,
I can go ahead and
say, And you'll be like,
that's not what I want, I want my
buttons to have different labels.
It works exactly like prototype
inheritance in JavaScript,
which is if the instance doesn't have it
defined, it looks up to the prototype.
So if I went and said.
Actually, let's keep that one.
Right, only the one where it's not
overridden actually gets the change.
And that's actually true, so
let's say hypothetically,
let's get rid of the variable now for
a minute just to make a point.
Where instead of 8,
we're gonna get rid of that, and
we're gonna say actually,
you're gonna be 16 now.
They all changed, but
if this one, no go back to 8,
it won't inherit the change even
if this one changes, right?
So whatever's not being
overridden gets all the changes.
This means you can have large scale,
sets of components.
So we have one called Holocene
that we'll use it tomorrow,
that's currently still like internal OS,
but it's an open source project, so
one could go look at it if they wanted to.
It's just not totally ready for
mass consumption.
And then I made one just as a kind of
example, where you have your buttons, and
you might have your alerts.
And you might have your checkboxes and
your accurate set of icons and
your inputs and labels and
your radio buttons and stuff like that.
So now, you gonna have all of these
component pieces, yeah, let's go with
the unintended pawn, that you kind of
drag and use throughout your code base.
And then should you make a change to how
these work, anything along those lines,
then you get to the point where you can
begin to kind of pull it all together.
And so, the idea and concept of
a component out of the box makes,
I think some amount of sense like
what I would say is like you can
build a component based on
other components, right?
So if you looked over here,
I have a label and an input.
Anyone wanna take a lucky guess what
this label is on the radio button?
Let's go, if I look at this label,
it is actually referencing my label
component from before, right?
And so, if I change what the idea of
a label looks like or anything about it,
everything that uses that label,
everything that uses an input field.
Even if it's like I could build
a component that is a login form,
that's made of two input fields, right?
If I change anything about those input
fields, the login form that references
those components,
even if it's a component itself, right?
You can begin to build
a level of abstraction,
that is second nature to
a lot of us as engineers, and
everything you think about how you
would use it is absolutely true, right?
And so, unlike some of the earlier things,
I don't necessarily feel the need to
labor that point too much, because
components, they work exactly in Figma.
The nuances, but like on a high level,
they work mostly in Figma
the way they do in your code.
And the other thing that you can
do is if you have a team account,
you can at some point go in there and say,
okay I want to go publish it as a library,
right?
So now if you have multiple design teams,
they all use the same set of components.
You might have a Figma project that has
all of these kinds of core components like
we have one for our color system that's
kind of shared across our marketing site,
as well as the applications, right?
We have one for our cloud UI, one for the
open source UI, but they all inherit from
the same, set of components that
are shared across all of these files.
And then, can be used and then if
the design team changes some part of our
design language, they can push out these
changes and all the designs can opt in.
We'll take a look at
that a little bit later.
But the fundamental concept is there,
and you can go ahead and
create a component at any given time.
If you are using a component and
this file is not super interesting,
you can always hit main component,
you can go to that main component.
If you change an instance, and
you actually wanna push it back up to
the prototype, you can push those
changes to the main component.
Dangerous as you might think it is, right?
Hey, I'm in this really
important context now,
I changed five other files I wouldn't,
but you do what you want.
And you also go to the main component
which will then jump you back over there,
so on and so forth, all right?
Again, they take a lot of
stuff that we saw earlier and
allow you to abstract it, the rules
that we said earlier about slashes and
names also work for organization as well.
If they are any given page,
once you have more than one,
they'll begin to use
the structure of your file.
But if you have like icon/warning,
that will be then be nested under icons,
button/primary will be
nested under buttons.
You can also use sections for
the same purpose, so
if I made a section and we call it.
You can now see that it jumped under
the whatever very importantly,
now I have my button here, right?
And so, you can use sections and pages and
stuff like that to add some
level of organization.
And as we saw before, there's stuff
the design team's working on, and
then some of those ready for
development or not.